# CS-230-T5459-Operating-Platforms-23EW5
II.	Prompt: For this course, submit the completed software design document that you created for your client, The Gaming Room, into the GitHub repository for your portfolio. This completed design document demonstrates your ability to be effective in working through the design of a software application and to communicate it effectively to a client and your development team members.
Once you have submitted your software design document, update the README file in your repository and include your answers to each of the questions below. You could include the questions and write a few sentences in response to each one, or you could write a paragraph or two weaving together all of your answers.
1.	Briefly summarize The Gaming Room client and their software requirements. Who was the client? What type of software did they want you to design? 
 	Creative Technology Solutions (CTS), in which I work as a Technology Consultant, has recently taken on a new client, The Gaming Room (SNHU, n.d.).   The client would like CTS to develop a web-based game that serves multiple platforms based on their current game, Draw It or Lose It; currently only available in an Android app (SNHU, n.d.).   Draw It or Lose It, mimics the 1980’s television game show Win, Lose or Draw, with teams taking turns to draw images on an easel to help their teammates guess the puzzle (a phrase, title, or thing) (SNHU, n.d.).   The application for Draw It or Lose It will provide images from a large library of stock drawings as clues (SNHU, n.d.).   Each game will consist of four rounds of play, lasting one minute each (SNHU, n.d.).   Drawings will be provided at a steady pace and will become fully complete at the 30-second mark (SNHU, n.d.).   If a team is unable to guess the puzzle before the time expires, the remaining teams will be given a chance to solve the puzzle with a 15-second time limit (SNHU, n.d.).   The client hopes to facilitate and expand the development of the web-based version of the gamming app., using various software patterns in a distributed environment, has asked CTS to streamline the development (SNHU, n.d.).   As the Technology Consultant I will begin developing the game application, working to address The Game Room’s software requirements (SNHU, n.d.).   The hardware requirements will be addressed once the technical manager and client have reviewed the progress made as a result of the software application decisions (SNHU, n.d.).   The Gaming Room has requested that their game “Draw It or Lose It” will be capable of having one or more teams involved at a time, and that each team would consist of multiple players (SNHU, n.d.).   “Draw It or Lose It” will also require a function in place to track whether a unique name is in-use or not (SNHU, n.d.).   Finally, The Gaming Room has also requested that only one instance of the game can exist in memory at a time (SNHU, n.d.).     
 	My next task as CTS’s Technology Consultant is to evaluate the three traditional operation platforms (Linux, Mac, and Windows), as well as mobile platforms, for how the game application software can be deployed and run, and what would be required to do so (SNHU, n.d.).   As the Technology Consultant, I will conduct an evaluation of the characteristics, advantages, and weaknesses of the suggested operation platforms (Linux, Mac, and Windows), as well as the mobile platforms (SNHU, n.d.).  The client has requested the server-style configuration for hosting the website and allowing it to scale up to thousands of players (SNHU, n.d.).  The client would like to move beyond just their Android-only app and offer supporting players on iOS and Android mobile platforms, as well as traditional desktop-based operating systems (OS) (SNHU, n.d.).  A major requirement for the application is that it is delivered as a modern, responsive HTML interface running inside the web browser for desktop clients (Linux, Mac, and Windows) and mobile platforms (SNHU, n.d.).  Each platform will have the capability of communicating with the back-end web application running on the server (SNHU, n.d.).  
 	The final task will be to analyze the characteristics and techniques specific to various system architectures, and make recommendations to The Gaming Room, addressing the following: Operating Platform, Operating Systems Architectures, Storage Memory, Distributed Systems and Networks, and Security (SNHU, n.d.).  Once completed, I will present my evaluation to the client, informing them of my findings and aiding in their decision on the benefits of each platform and their utility in a distributed environment (SNHU, n.d.).     
2.	What did you do particularly well in developing this documentation?
The thing that I feel I did particularly well in developing the documentation was covering the cloud-based server portion of the project.  I think that I covered the evaluation section the best. In the evaluation I included information highlighting both sides of the server systems, along with their software.  I made the client aware of both the benefits and negatives of each.
3.	What about the process of working through a design document did you find helpful when developing the code?
I personally can’t say the design document was too helpful.  The code took multiple attempts on various computers in my house running different versions of Eclipse to get working properly.  I consulted with the class discussions but didn’t receive any replies and had to contact my instructor for further information.  If I had to choose one helpful part of the design document, I guess it would have to be the step-by-step guide.  Although the guide ended up leading to errors depending on the version of Eclipse, the guides provided thorough information and could be potentially helpful if matched with a concurrent Eclipse application.
4.	If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
One part of my work on these documents that I would like to revise would be the details of different operating systems.  I would have liked to provide a much deeper analysis of each server operating system.  I believe I may have contributed too much information towards Ubuntu server, and not enough detail towards Mac OS, IOS/Android, and Windows server.  In retrospective, I would like to extend both cloud-based/physical server software explanations. 
5.	How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your software design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
The user’s needs were implemented depending on the budget and scalability requirements.  For example, if the client was planning a slow growth approach, I would recommend a physical server system.  If the client was planning a fast growth approach, I would recommend a cloud-based server system.  I also considered the requirements of storage, memory, and overall computational performance.  If the user needed high-performance, their best bet would be to rent a cloud-based system, whilst, if the user needed a secure storage server, I would have recommended a physical server with large storage volumes.  The user’s needs are important due to the need to be able to make clear judgment for prospective growth.  If the user didn’t see them growing rapidly, the need for the highest specified server may not be very necessary.
6.	How did you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a similar software application?
The approach I took to designing the software was to read each given scenario, so that I could better understand the client’s wants and needs.  As the Technology Consultant I needed to be aware of my given responsibilities and requirements.  I then used these responsibilities and requirements to make an informed decision of the best route--cloud-based and/or physical server/software. 

Works Cited    
Southern New Hampshire University (SNHU). (n.d.). Project One Guidelines and Rubric Module Three. Project One Guidelines and Rubric. CS-230-T5459 Operating Platforms 23EW5. https://learn.snhu.edu/d2l/le/content/1309582/viewContent/24267069/View 
Southern New Hampshire University (SNHU). (n.d.). Project Two Guidelines and Rubric Module Five. Project Two Guidelines and Rubric. CS-230-T5459 Operating Platforms 23EW5. https://learn.snhu.edu/d2l/le/content/1309582/viewContent/24267070/View 
Southern New Hampshire University (SNHU). (n.d.). Project Three Guidelines and Rubric Module Seven. Project Three Guidelines and Rubric The Gaming Room. CS-230-T5459 
